Please, sir! We're in trouble.
You have to help us!
Matoriv: I don't want
anything to do with anyone.
You... I know you!
Matoriv: Hm?
Uncle Matoriv! It's you!
[gasp]
Is it really you?!
Darling Maam!
And look how you've grown!
You look just like how your
mother did at your age!
As if!
Calm down, young lady.
I changed your diapers when
you were a baby, remember?
Now give me a proper greeting.
You haven't changed
at all you creepy old man.
Wait a second;
you know this guy, Maam?
I don't just know him.
This is my...
Matoriv! Now I remember.
The Mage who fought the Dark
Lord's army alongside the Hero,
and then went on to serve the
Papnica royal family, as well!
Baduck: The Grand
Sorcerer Matoriv!
By Hero, you mean
Master Avan?
That's right.
My uncle was a member of
our Master Avan's party.
And how is your
mother doing, Maam?
If she's still single, I could
always marry her, you know.
[laughing]
He used to visit our village
a lot before he vanished,
I remember,
but it's been years
and I had no idea
he was hiding out here.
This old guy was really in
the legendary party, back then?
Normally, I wouldn't
be so happy to see him,
but today's a
little different.
This is great.
With the mess we're in,
no one could be more helpful
than the Grand Sorcerer.
Now - now, we have
a fighting chance!
We could really use
your skills, Matoriv!
So, I beg of you - will you
help us rescue Princess Leona?
Princess?
That's right.
The Princess of Papnica is being
held prisoner on Valge Island.
I'm sure the illustrious
Matoriv could overcome
our enemy's strange spell!
Please! What say you?
No, thanks.
W-What?!
I said no thanks.
My days of helping that
silly royal family are over!
Silly? The royal family?!
Matoriv: It's
not just the royalty,
it's people in general.
Of course, when the
Dark Army was attacking,
they'd butter us up
so we'd go fight for them.
But once peace came,
they all suddenly turned their
backs on us - big surprise.
Sure, I got to be advisor to the
king after the battle was over,
but I was constantly being
badgered by the other officials.
[weary sigh]
They were all jealous
of my magic skills.
That's people for you.
They think of
nothing but themselves.
I grew tired of them all and
decided to live in this cave.
I may have saved
you on a whim,
but that's as
far as it goes.
Besides, even if I help
you, once the job is over,
you'll just forget
about me anyway,
'cause that's just
the way things go.
But, that's...
Dai: That's not true.
[surprised breaths]
Whoa, Dai... you, uh...
Not everybody thinks only
about themselves like you say!
If you were Master Avan's
companion, you should know that!
Matoriv: Those eyes... Avan?!
I know that look.
And you are?
My name's Dai, and I'm
Master Avan's last student!
Last?
Master, he... He gave his
own life... to save us!
I see. So Avan
is dead. I'm sorry.
That's why we're here.
We want to avenge his death
by defeating the Dark Army.
So, please, sir!
Lend us your strength!
I'm listening.
[happy breaths]
[happy chirps]
Matoriv: That's
Legendary Forbidden Magic.
Maam: I think Flazzard
mentioned something like that.
What is it?
Forbidden Magic is magic
so dirty that its use has
been banned across the
continents for centuries.
Anyone who uses it will
become a pariah among Mages.
So then what can we do
to save Princess Leona?
Matoriv: First, you break
the Blizzblaze Curse Field.
To do that, you have to
approach outside the field
and destroy these two Spires.
That means, you'll need bombs
that pack a hefty punch.
Then you leave that to me!
I'm an expert.
Matoriv: Good.
You can use anything you
find here for materials.
[intrigued sigh]
Don't forget, they need
to pack a hefty punch.
Popp: We don't need
any silly bombs.
I can just blow those
things up with my magic!
[inconspicuous whistling]
Matoriv: He's not a
Disciple of Avan, too, is he?
Yeah, that's Popp.
He's a Mage just like you.
Matoriv: Lend him to me.
Huh? Does he show promise?
Matoriv: Quite the opposite.
I've never seen a Mage
who looked so weak willed.
If I don't do something,
he's going to die out there.
O-Oh, really?
But don't you fret.
I'll train him with
a Special Hard Course
that's even harder
than Hero Avan's.
[chuckling]
Zaboera: What?!
What did you just say,
Lord Hadlar?!
A full-on assault, Zaboera.
They'll surely make
an attempt to destroy
the Dark Flame and Dark Ice
Spires before too long,
will they not?
And when they do, they'll
split up their forces.
So we will gather
all of our armies,
then wipe out Dai
and his companions.
Oh?
But Flazzard
will complain about
not being able to take
all the credit for it.
Flazzard is a
monster that I created
using Legendary
Forbidden Magic.
In a way, Flazzard is my son.
He won't disobey my orders.
Intriguing.
At last, my Dragon Legion
will be able to play
a role in this task.
Not yet, Baran.
I have another assignment
more suited to your skills.
And what's that?
Our friend
Mystvearn has been
laying siege to
the Carl Kingdom,
but their forces
are proving to be
more resilient
than we thought.
I'd like for you to go take down
them down yourself, knight.
You have already asked us to
gather all of our forces here.
Defeating the Hero
is our priority.
Is that not why the
Six Legion Commanders
were summoned in the
first place, Hadlar?!
Or is there some...
other reason,
you don't want me to face this
supposedly important boy, Dai?
Talk all you want, Baran,
but the order still stands.
Very well, then.
I will follow your orders this
time, Dark Commander. Now...
I'm off to the Carl Kingdom.
Zaboera [thought]:
What is it about Baran
that makes Lord Hadlar
treat him so?
Lord Hadlar [thought]:
Not even Baran
can overthrow the Carl
Kingdom that easily...
But we must rid ourselves
of Dai before he does.
We shall make
Valge Island their grave!
[pained groan]
H-hey, what the...
This is Nayle Village.
That was Zoom; an instant
transmission spell.
You just have to
think of a location,
and it will take you there
in the blink of an eye, see?
Mina: Popp!
Leira: Matoriv, you're back...
I haven't seen you in-
Hello, Leira,
long time no see.
I ran into your daughter.
Maam?
She's filled out very nicely.
Just like you
when you were young.
But, why are
you here with Popp?
It's complicated.
Figured I'd give his butt
a well-deserved kick.
Come on!
Aw, poor Popp...
Matoriv: Get over here.
-Popp: I get it, I get it!
-Matoriv: Shut up.
He seems like a
really mean old man.
[chuckling]
He is.
But if he's
the one teaching,
I have no doubt that
Popp will get stronger.
There was once a time
that Matoriv was considered
the greatest of all the Mages.
But he can be a bit quirky.
[terrified screaming]
How will this let me
use powerful magic?!
Idiot! This is nothing but a
basic stamina building warm-up.
Better pick up the pace
quick or you'll get trampled!
[pained yelp]
You see? I knew
you could do it.
[chuckling]
Frizz doesn't work
well underwater!
Find another way out
before you drown, young mage.
I'll give you a little clue;
it's not a spell
that'll save you!
Release the Magic Power
from your entire body!
Oh, dear. Maybe
I read him wrong?
[coughing]
Oh! Sorry, Dai!
We should stop for now.
You still haven't fully healed,
and you're pushing
yourself too hard.
But I'm fine!
I can't just rest when Popp
is out there training so hard!
Besides, Matoriv
said this practice
would help me fight Flazzard,
and I'm not going
to lose to him again.
Dai: I'll never
forgive that monster...
Just when I
finally found Leona!
I'm going to defeat him!
And I'm going to rescue her,
no matter what it takes!
Maam [thought]: I've never
seen Dai so emotional before.
Princess Leona must
really be important to him.
All right, then!
Let's keep going!
Come on!
[growling]
[pained groan]
Please... No more.
A truly pathetic display.
We've spent the
whole day together
and your Magic Power
has barely increased.
You should be deeply ashamed
that a hundred year-old
like me beat a
youngster like you.
A hundred?!
Well, I guess
that's all for today.
[disappointed sigh]
I'm heading back
to my cave in Papnica.
You'll have to use your own
Zoom spell to get there.
What?! But there's no way
I can do that without help!
But it's easy.
You flew from the
river to the shore
by releasing your Magic Power-
isn't that right?
If you have a clear image
of your destination in mind,
then Zoom is a piece of cake.
But from the river to
shore is totally different
than from here to Papnica.
Besides, even if
I do learn Zoom,
it's still
useless in battle!
Wise up, weakling!
Use magic to aid
your companions-
don't use it to lead
them into battle!
A deep knowledge of
spells is necessary!
Get that through
your head because
this is what a Mage
is meant to do!
Don't you see, that if you
had used Zoom back there,
you could have rescued
your companions from
that burning Balloon Ship
entirely on your own?!
Don't talk like you're
anything more than a novice!
If you can't clear
a challenge this easy,
you'll only drag everyone
else down with you.
Even if you do join the fight,
you're just going
to end up dead.
You can wander around
the Dark Forest for eternity!
No, no. Wait!
Oh, come on!
Ah, Grand Sorcerer!
I've completed the bombs.
These are useless.
The design is poor.
The design?
Go for a more
sophisticated shape.
They're going to
get blown up anyway,
so who really cares what they're
going to look like before that?
Well, it looks like
you're making progress.
Matoriv!
Once you cut through the unseen,
you'll feel the difference.
Your blade will become three,
or even five times
more powerful yet.
So then, keep it up.
Maam: Wait, where's Popp?
Him? He's dead in
the woods, somewhere.
Both: What?!
And what a pampered
little whiner that boy was.
His type never try unless
you make 'em desperate.
That's why I left him over on
the other side of the world.
Avan was always too soft of
a teacher for his own good.
He couldn't train a
crybaby like that Popp.
What he needs is my kind
of tough love - he'll see!
[chuckling]
Maam [thought]:
He enjoys this?
Flazzard: Can you hear me?!
You little Disciples of Avan!
Flazzard: How long do you think
you can hide from me, huh?!
Flazzard: You don't think
your Princess is safe
being frozen, do you?!
I hope not...
Because unfortunately,
her life force is being
drained as I'm speaking to you!
Flazzard: Your Princess's
life ends tomorrow at sundown!
Flazzard: Hurry
on back! I miss you!
Leona could die?!
No, that's not going
to happen - Flazzard!
[shrieking]
Popp: Get real!
I'm not gonna be
dragging anyone down!
Matoriv: Unless you defeat
Flazzard by sundown tomorrow,
the Princess's life
force will be drained
by the Forbidden Magic ice.
But charging in during the day
is just what the enemy wants.
We strike tonight, then.
Light the fuse, and
in five seconds... Boom!
We only have two, so we'll
have to be careful with them.
I guess we'll just have to
use the ugly bombs after all.
If these don't work,
we'll have to destroy the spires
by sword or magic, won't we?
What are you saying?!
I made them myself!
They should be
completely foolproof!
Maam [thought]: Yeah...
That's why we're worried.
How are we going to get
back to Valge island, though?
Our Balloon Ship
has been lost.
I have a small boat that
I sometimes use for fishing.
I can fly it across
with my magic for you,
just above the
surface of the ocean.
That'll get us
over the whirlpool.
Indeed. But the boat
can only hold four of you.
Then it's me, and Maam,
and I guess...
Well me, of course! I mean
I built the bombs, didn't I?
Of course I'm coming with!
And I'll go, too!
Fighting to serve
and protect the Princess
is exactly what the Papnica
Troika were destined to do!
Apollo: Wait, Amy...
Apollo, you shouldn't
be moving yet!
Apollo: I cannot let Dai and
his friends carry our burden.
I shall go in your stead.
No. I'll do it.
Popp: Hold on a
second, you two.
[surprised breaths]
The fourth seat
is already taken.
Both: You're back!
Sorry for the wait.
I had a hard time getting a
clear image of Matoriv's cave.
I made it to the Papnica
temple with my new Zoom spell,
but from there
it was a real pain
and it took me a
while to find you all.
But, hey... I made
it back, didn't I?
Good work. You'll be
the fourth, then.
All right. Nothing beats
Maam's Midheal spell!
This is the last help
you'll get from me.
It'd be easy with
a Zoom spell,
but I've never actually
been on that island.
So instead we'll
have Popp do it,
he'll take you to
the top of Valge Tower
inside the curse field.
You've helped plenty, Uncle.
Thank you for everything,
Matoriv, really.
Matoriv: Save the thanks
for when you win, dummy.
We'll make you proud.
Baduck: Everybody aboard!
Listen...
If we survive all this,
then I'd like to continue
my training with you.
Because if I quit
after all of that,
it would look like
I just ran off.
Like I'd let you run.
I'm still nowhere near
finished with you, young mage.
Okay!
Later, Mentor!
So he's your "Mentor," now?
Well, Avan is my one
and only master.
A mentor and master
are different!
Why are you splitting hairs?
Now, here we go.
When did Gomechan
sneak on board with us?
[screaming]
May they go forth
with the blessing of
the great gods of Papnica.
Be careful, young
Disciples of Avan.
[thrilled shouting]
This is amazing!
We're going to make it to the
island in no time, aren't we?!
I guess they don't call him
the Grand Sorcerer for nothing!
Hey, guys? So, I was
just thinking...
How do we stop?
Amy: Is something wrong?
Matoriv: I might have forgotten
to tell them how to slow down.
[alarmed screaming]
What do we do?!
I don't know! Don't ask me!
We're gonna crash! We're gonna
crash! We're gonna crash!
[worried chirping]
Woosh!
That's it!
A Woosh spell brake!
Well - then cast a Woosh,
why don't you?!
Don't you have Woosh
in your Magic Bullet Gun?!
Baduck: Cast it!
Cast it! Cast it!
Woosh!
Come on, Mentor.
[pained groans]
He talks a big game,
but he always screws
up where it counts!
But I tried to cast a Woosh,
and... it really worked!
Dai: Let's split up.
I'll take the Dark
Flame Spire with Baduck.
Baduck: Right.
Then Maam and I will
take the Ice Spire.
Once the Spires are destroyed
and Flazzard's
curse field is down,
we charge into Valge Tower!
Right, sorry. You come
with us, Gomechan.
[chirp]
Okay, good luck.
Dai: Stay safe, you two!
Zaboera: [cackle]
Oh, look!
Here they come.
The sad little flies
in the spider's web.
Mystvearn? Tell me, are your
soldiers ready for action?
[cackling]
[devious laughter]
Narrator: After they've split
up to topple the Dark Spires,
Dai and his friends
find themselves
ensnared in a
vicious attack.
And with the full force of the
Dark Army raining down on them,
it seems as if Lord Hadlar
might get his revenge...
But when our heroes
fall into peril,
an unexpected
visitor intervenes.
Learn their
identity next time on
Dragon Quest:
The Adventure of Dai,
"The Death-Defying Savior".